degree in which they have a major in a commerce or humanities 
subject and a major in law. 
Please note that students must apply for admission to the Law 
Faculty at the end of their undergraduate Humanities or Commerce 
degree and must obtain a cumulative GPA of at least 60% in their 
UCT undergraduate degree in order to proceed to the two-year 
graduate LLB degree.  
This route allows candidates who do not meet the requirements for 
admission to the undergraduate LLB to apply for a Humanities or 
Commerce degree, to adapt to university studies, and, if they perform 
satisfactorily in their first year of study, to join the law stream in their 
second or third year at university. The advantage of this route over the 
undergraduate LLB route is that a full major in a discipline other than 
law is possible, thus resulting in a more rounded higher education experience.
THE GRADUATE LLB (3 YEARS MINIMUM)
The graduate LLB route is for students who have completed an undergraduate degree 
in any discipline without having majored in law. This route allows candidates to 
complete a full degree in a discipline other than law and then add the LLB. This route 
can be completed in a minimum of six years (3 + 3).  In order to be admitted to the 
3-year graduate LLB, applicants must meet certain advertised admission requirements 
and are offered places on a competitive basis.
The advantage of this route over the combined route is that candidates obtain a broad 
education in the Humanities, Commerce or  Sciences in addition to their education in law.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS HOLDING THE 
NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE
The Faculty cannot admit all those who apply to study law, as applications vastly 
exceed the available places. If there are more applicants who meet the admission 
criteria than there are places, only the best applicants in each category will be made 
an offer.
ADMISSION TO THE 4-YEAR UNDERGRADUATE LLB
Applications are assessed on the basis of the applicant’s results in the National Senior 
Certificate (NSC) or other school-leaving examination, together with the applicant’s 
results in the Academic Literacy and Quantitative Literacy components of the National 
Benchmark Tests (NBTs).
As a general rule, no more than ten international applicants will be accepted into the undergraduate 
LLB programme.
ELIGIBLE BAND ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
All SA applicantsBand A
FPSGuaranteed admission  
510 FPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL 
and intermediate or above for QL
All SA applicantsBand B
WPSProbable Admission  
495 WPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL 
and intermediate or above for QL
Only SA applicants in  
targeted redress  
categories Band C
FPSPossible admission
460 FPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL 
and intermediate or above for QL   
International applicants Probable admission  
520 FPS or above
NBT scores of proficient for AL 
and intermediate or above for QL
ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS WITH NON-SOUTH AFRICAN SCHOOL-
LEAVING CERTIFICATES 
For applicants in possession of, or writing, other than South African qualifications, offers of 
places may only be made subject to the equivalent bachelor’s exemption being obtained from the 
Matriculation Board (refer to mb.usaf.ac.za/exemption-process/  for further information and online 
assessment and application). 
In addition, candidates writing A-level, AS-level, NSSC or IB Diploma examinations* must meet the 
following minimum requirements, obtained using the scoring table in the admissions prospectus. 
Meeting these requirements does not guarantee admission which is limited by available capacity.
PROBABLE ADMISSION MINIMUM ADMISSION
International applicants 46+ APS points 44+ APS points
All SA applicants 44+ APS points 36+ APS points
SA applicants in targeted redress categories 39+ APS points 36+ APS points
* Applicants writing other international authority examinations will be assessed on their individual merits.
NOTE : As explained in the section on ‘career opportunities’ above, obtaining the LLB does not automatically 
entitle non-citizens and non-permanent residents of South Africa to be admitted to practise as attorney or 
advocates in this country.
ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS WITH NON-SOUTH 
AFRICAN SCHOOL-LEAVING CERTIFICATES
For applicants in possession of, or writing, other than South African qualifications, offers of places may 
only be made subject to the equivalent bachelor’s exemption being obtained from the South African Higher 
Education (Matriculation) Board (refer to  mb.usaf.ac.za/exemption-process/  for further information and  
online assessment and application).
In addition, candidates writing A-level, AS-level, NSSC or IB Diploma examinations* must meet the following 
minimum requirements, obtained using the scoring table in the admissions prospectus. Meeting these 
requirements does not guarantee admission which is limited by available capacity.
ADMISSION TO THE COMBINED LAW AND HUMANITIES OR LAW AND COMMERCE  
LLB STREAMS
Applicants to the Humanities and Commerce Faculties must meet the admission requirements of those 
faculties in order to commence their undergraduate Humanities or Commerce degree.  Students who wish 
to do a combined degree begin taking law subjects in their second year of study as an undergraduate 
major.  Students are not automatically permitted to do these law subjects.  The number of  places available 
on the law major stream is limited and varies from year to year.  Places are offered on a competitive basis to 
candidates with the highest results and in accordance with the Law Faculty’s redress enrolment targets.  
In order to be eligible for consideration for possible (but not guaranteed) admission to the law major stream 
of the BA/BSocSc or BCom/BBusSci degrees, candidates must either have achieved sufficient points in the NSC 
and National Benchmark Tests to have qualified for admission to the four-year undergraduate LLB degree, on 
a competitive basis, in their first year of study OR must have attained an average of at least 65% in the case 
of Humanities students and 63% in the case of Commerce students on a first sitting of a full first year course 
load totalling at least 144 credits for Humanities students and 164 credits for Commerce students. 
* Applicants writing other international authority examinations will be assessed on their individual merits.
                68      |      2024 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS