FACULTY POINTS SCORE (FPS) 
The FPS (a score out of 800) is calculated as the sum of the percentages achieved in the best six 
NSC subjects, including English but excluding Life Orientation, and doubling the percentages 
achieved in Mathematics and Physical Science. Admission to the Faculty of Science requires a 
minimum FPS of 550, but this does not guarantee admission. Refer to the table below.
NOTE: most offers are made to applicants with points in the guaranteed admission band.
Subject entrance requirements
• Mathematics at 70% or above
• Physical Science at 60% or above (refer to notes 2 and 3 below).
• Where an applicant has not completed Physical Science, Information Technology or Life 
Sciences may be doubled (refer to notes 2 and 3 below). 
ELIGIBLE ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
All applicantsBand A
FPSGuaranteed Admission
FPS of 660 or above
Mathematics 70% or above and Physical Sciences 60% or above 
(see Notes 2 & 3)
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to be written*
Band B
WPSAdmission Very Likely
WPS of 640 or above
Mathematics 70% or above and Physical Sciences 60% or above 
(see Notes 2 & 3) 
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to be written*
SA applicants 
in targeted 
redress 
categories Band C
FPSAdmission Possible
FPS of 550 or above
Mathematics 70% or above and Physical Sciences 60% or above 
(see Notes 2 & 3)
NBTs in Mathematics, AL & QL to be written*
 * The results of the NBTs are not taken into account for admission to the Science Faculty
Note 1: Acceptance into the Science Faculty does not guarantee acceptance into a chosen major because 
some majors (currently Biology Biochemistry, Genetics, Geology and Human Anatomy & Physiology) have 
limits on the number of students that can be accommodated. Selection for these is based on academic 
criteria which will be clearly communicated to students during the first year of study. Students will be 
advised in their first year to take courses which could lead to several majors.
Note 2: If you have not completed Physical Sciences or Information Technology in your secondary 
school-leaving examinations, your choice of major will be restricted to Archaeology and Environmental & 
Geographical Science.
Note 3:   For majors in Computer Science and Business Computing the Physical Science requirement may 
be replaced by Information Technology (only where Physical Science was not taken).PLACEMENT 
Admission to the Science Faculty will be directly onto the regular, three-year degree 
programme. All students will be required to write a set of formal class tests at mid-term of 
the first semester and on the basis of the results of these tests, together with NSC and NBT 
results, selected students will be counselled to convert to the four-year Extended Degree 
Programme (EDP).  The EDP is structured such that students entering the programme will 
receive additional academic and general support to improve the chances of graduating in 
minimum time. 
The EDP is run in association with the Academic Development Programme (ADP) and offers 
students who are struggling the opportunity to establish a sound educational foundation, 
with an appropriate distribution of their academic load over a four-year period. The minimum 
time for a student on the EDP to complete the BSc degree is four years.
ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS WITH NON-SOUTH AFRICAN 
SECONDARY SCHOOL-LEAVING CERTIFICATES
 
For applicants in possession of or writing other than South African qualifications, offers of 
places may only be made subject to the equivalent bachelor’s exemption being obtained 
from the South African Higher Education (Matriculation) Board 
(refer to mb.usaf.ac.za/exemption-process/  for further information and online  
assessment and application). 
In addition, candidates must meet the following minimum requirements; meeting these 
requirements does not guarantee admission which is limited by available capacity:
2024 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS     |      75           APPLICANTS MUST TAKE AT LEAST:
English, Mathematics and Chemistry and/or Physics (or Physical Science)
• Chemistry is required for majors in Biology, Marine Biology, Biochemistry, Chemistry, 
Genetics, Geology, Human Anatomy & Physiology and Ocean & Atmosphere Science
• Physics is required for majors in Astrophysics, Physics and Computer Engineering
• Chemistry/Physics may be replaced by Computer Science for majors in Computer Science, 
Business Computing, Computer Engineering and Computer Games Development only.
• Chemistry/Physics may be replaced by Geography for the major in Environmental & 
Geographical Science
FACULTY POINTS SCORE (FPS) FOR NON NSC EXAMINATIONS
Admission to the Faculty of Science requires an applicant to have achieved a FPS of 34 
points or above, based on the five best subjects (including the required subjects), obtained 
using the scoring table in the section of this prospectus titled “Applying to UCT”.
Applicants writing other international authority examinations will be assessed on their 
individual merits.
Bachelor 
of ScienceCAIE
English: C at IGCSE level
Mathematics: B at A/AS level
Physical Science (or Chemistry or Physics): C at A/AS level
Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC)
English: C at Ordinary Level
Mathematics: 70% (or level 1 Higher level)
Physical Science (or Chemistry or Physics): 60%
(or level 1 Higher level)
International Baccalaureate
English: Grade 5 at SL
Mathematics: Grade 5 at HL or Grade 6 at SL 
(Maths Studies is not accepted)
Physical Science (or Chemistry or Physics):   
Grade 5 at HL or Grade 6 SL
Note: Due to capacity constraints offers are unlikely to be made to applicants who only meet the 
minimum admission requirements.ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
All international students for whom English is not a first/home language or have not passed 
English at Grade 12, AS-level, IGCSE level or equivalent, must provide proof of English language 
proficiency.
Applicants are required to achieve one of the following:
• A score of at least 51% for the Academic Literacy (AL) component of the National Benchmark 
Tests (NBTs)
• A pass in the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) with a score of at least 570 on the 
paper-based test, or 230 on the computer-based test; or 88 on the internet-based test
• An overall band score of 7.0 (with no individual element of the test scoring below 6.0) on the 
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
• A score of 64 on the Pearson PTE Academic test. 
The tests must be taken at your own expense, before submitting an application. These are the 
minimum levels of English proficiency required for consideration for admission to UCT.
TRANSFERRING STUDENTS
Transferring applicants are required to write the National Benchmark Test (NBT), submit certified 
copies of secondary-leaving and tertiary transcripts of results and a letter of motivation in support 
of the application, providing details of activities since leaving school and reasons for wanting to 
transfer to the Faculty of Science. We have a limited number of academic places in the Faculty of 
Science, so offers will be made to the best candidates in this category.
Transferring students are expected to have school-leaving and NBT results competitive with the 
current applicant pool and must have:
• passed all first-year courses in their first year at another institution, and bring with them at 
least four full courses (or the equivalent) that earn credit and exemption at UCT;
• not been refused readmission by another tertiary institution;  and 
• not been registered at another tertiary institution for more than two years.
All students who transfer from other Universities must register for a minimum of two years for 
the BSc degree, and complete all the senior courses of their majors, at UCT.
Note : Transferring of credits
• UCT may give credit for, and/or exemption from, a maximum of four full courses (or the 
equivalent in half courses) completed elsewhere if these courses are recognised by UCT.
• It is the applicant’s responsibility to obtain, from the relevant UCT departments, signed approval 
of credit and exemption for the courses they wish to transfer, before their applications will be 
considered. 
• Senior major courses may not be transferred for credit or exemption.
• Tertiary courses required for matriculation exemption purposes will not be credited.
                76      |      2024 UNDERGRADUATE PROSPECTUS